README.md, before:

# Build a Starchart Web API using ASP.NET Core

The Build a Starchart Web API using ASP.NET Core Application is designed to allow users to submit and retrieve data about celestial objects. This will cover using EntityFramework to retrieve, add, update, and remove data from an in memory database and making it accessible via a web service.

# Setup the Application

## If you want to use Visual Studio
If you want to use Visual Studio (highly recommended) follow the following steps:
-   If you already have Visual Studio installed make sure you have .Net Core installed by running the "Visual Studio Installer" and making sure ".NET Core cross-platform development" is checked
-   If you need to install visual studio download it at https://www.microsoft.com/net/download/ (If you're using Windows you'll want to check "ASP.NET" and ".NET Core cross-platform development" on the workloads screen during installation.)
-   Open the .sln file in visual studio
-   To run the application simply press the Start Debug button (green arrow) or press F5
-   If you're using Visual Studio on Windows, to run tests open the Test menu, click Run, then click on Run all tests (results will show up in the Test Explorer)
-   If you're using Visual Studio on macOS, to run tests, select the StarChartTests Project, then go to the Run menu, then click on Run Unit Tests (results will show up in the Unit Tests panel)

(Note: All tests should fail at this point, this is by design. As you progress through the projects more and more tests will pass. All tests should pass upon completion of the project.)

## If you don't plan to use Visual studio
If you would rather use something other than Visual Studio
-   Install the .Net Core SDK from https://www.microsoft.com/net/download/core once that installation completes you're ready to roll!
-   To run the application go into the StarChart project folder and type `dotnet run`
-   To run the tests go into the StarChartTests project folder and type `dotnet test`

# Features you will implement

- Configuring MVC and EntityFramework
- Create a web service that provides access to data
- Actions to retrieve data from the database
- Action to Submit data to the database
- Actions to Update existing data
- Action to remove data from the database

## Tasks necessary to complete implementation:

__Note:__ this isn't the only way to accomplish this, however; this is what the project's tests are expecting. Implementing this in a different way will likely result in being marked as incomplete / incorrect.

- [ ] Adding Middleware/Configuration to `Startup.cs`
  - [ ] In the `ConfigureServices` method call the `AddMvc` method on `services` to add support for MVC middleware.
  - [ ] In the `ConfigureServices` method call `AddDbContext<ApplicationDbContext>` on `services` with the argument `options => options.UseInMemoryDatabase("StarChart")` to point `EntityFramework` to the application's `DbContext`. (Note: You will need to add a `using` directives for `StarChart.Data` and `Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore`)
  - [ ] In the `Configure` method add a call to `UseMvc` method on `app`.
- [ ] Create `CelestialObject` Model
  - [ ] Create a new public class `CelestialObject` in the `Models` directory
  - [ ] Create a new public property of type `int` named `Id`.
  - [ ] Create a new public property of type `string` named `Name`. This property should have the `Required` attribute. (Note: you will need to add a `using` directive for `Systems.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations`)
  - [ ] Create a new public property of type `int?` named `OrbitedObjectId`.
  - [ ] Create a new public property of type `List<CelestialObject>` named `Satellites`. This property should have the `NotMapped` attribute. (Note: you will need to add `using` directives for `System.Collections.Generic` and `System.ComponentModels.DataAnnotations.Schema`)
  - [ ] Create a new public property of type `TimeSpan` named `OrbitalPeriod`.
  - [ ] In the `ApplicationDbContext` class, located in the `Data` folder, create a new public property of type `DbSet<CelestialObject>` named `CelestialObjects`. (Note: you will need to add a `using` directive for `StarChart.Models`)
- [ ] Create `CelestialObjectController` class
  - [ ] Create a new class `CelestialObjectController` in the `Controllers` folder that inherits the `ControllerBase` class. If any actions are automatically generated they should be removed. (Note: you will need to add a `using` directive for `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc`)
  - [ ] Add a `Route` attribute with a value of `""` and `ApiController` attribute to the `CelestialObjectController`.
  - [ ] Create a new private readonly field of type `ApplicationDbContext` named `_context`. (Note: you will need to add a `using` directive for `StarChart.Data`)
  - [ ] Create a constructor that accepts a parameter of type `ApplicationDbContext` and sets the `_context` field using the provided parameter.
- [ ] Create all `CelestialObjectController`'s Get actions
  - [ ] Create a new method `GetById` 
    - This method should have a return type of `IActionResult` 
    - This method should accept a parameter of type `int` named `id`. 
    - This method should have an `HttpGet` attribute with an value of `"{id:int}"` and the `Name` property set to `"GetById"`. 
    - This method should return `NotFound` there is no `CelestialObject` with an `Id` property that matches the parameter.
    - This method should also set the `Satellites` property to any `CelestialObjects` who's `OrbitedObjectId` is the current `CelestialObject`'s `Id`.
    - This method should return an `Ok` with a value of the `CelestialObject` who's `Id` property matches the `id` parameter.
  - [ ] Create the `GetByName` method
    - This method should have a return type of `IActionResult` 
    - This method should accept a parameter of type `string` named `name`. 
    - This method should have an `HttpGet` attribute with a value of `"{name}"`.
    - This method should return `NotFound` there is no `CelestialObject` with an `Name` property that matches the `name` parameter.
    - This method should also set the `Satellites` property for each `CelestialObject` who's `OrbitedObjectId` is the current `CelestialObject`'s `Id`.
    - This method should return an `Ok` with a value of the list of `CelestialObject` who's `Name` property matches the `name` parameter.
  - [ ] Create the `GetAll` method
    - This method should have a return type of `IActionResult`.
    - This method should also set the `Satellites` property for each of the `CelestialObject`s returned.
    - This method should have an `HttpGet` attribute. 
    - This method should return `Ok` with a value of all `CelestialObjects`s.
- [ ] Create `CelestialObjectControllers`'s Post, Put, Patch, and Delete actions
  - [ ] Create the `Create` method
    - This method should have a return type of `IActionResult` .
    - This method should accept a parameter of type `[FromBody]CelestialObject`. (Note: You will need to add a `using` directive for `StarChart.Models`) 
    - This method should have an `HttpPost` attribute. 
    - This method should add the provided `CelestialObject` to the `CelestialObjects` `DbSet` then `SaveChanges`.
    - This method should return a `CreatedAtRoute` with the arguments 
      - `"GetById"`
      - A new `object` with an `id` of the `CelestialObject`'s `Id` (note: use the `new { }` format)
      - The newly created `CelestialObject`.
  - [ ] Create the `Update` method
    - This method should have a return type of `IActionResult` .
    - This method should accept a parameter of type `int` named `id` and a parameter of type `CelestialObject`. 
    - This method should have the `HttpPut` attribute with a value of `"{id}"`.
    - This method should locate the `CelestialObject` with an `Id` that matches the provided `int` parameter. 
      - If no match is found return `NotFound`.
      - If a match is found set it's `Name`, `OrbitalPeriod`, and `OrbitedObjectId` properties based on the provided `CelestialObject` parameter. Call `Update` on the `CelestialObjects` `DbSet` with an argument of the updated `CelestialObject`, and then call `SaveChanges`.
    - This method should return `NoContent`.
  - [ ] Create the `RenameObject` method
    - This method should have a return type of `IActionResult`.
    - This method should accept a parameter of type `int` named `id` and a parameter of type `string` named `name`. 
    - This method should have the `HttpPatch` attribute with an argument of `"{id}/{name}"`. 
    - This method should locate the `CelestialObject` with an `Id` that matches the provided `int` parameter. 
      - If no match is found return `NotFound`.
      - If a match is found set it's `Name` property to the provided `name` parameter. Then call `Update` on the `CelestialObjects` `DbSet` with an argument of the updated `CelestialObject`, and then call `SaveChanges`.
    - This method should return `NoContent`.
  - [ ] Create the `Delete` method
    - This method should have a return type of `IActionResult` 
    - This method should accept a parameter of type `int` named `id`. 
    - This method should have the `HttpDelete` attribute with an argument of `"{id}"`.
    - This method should get a `List` of all `CelestialObject`s who either have an `Id` or `OrbitedObjectId`that matches the provided parameter. 
      - If there are no matches it should return `NotFound`.
      - If there are matching `CelestialObject`s call `RemoveRange` on the `CelestialObjects` `DbSet` with an argument of the list of matching `CelestialObject`s. Then call `SaveChanges`.
    - This method should return `NoContent`.
    
## What Now?

You've completed the tasks of this project, if you want to continue working on this project some next steps to consider would be adding authentication to help secure the Web API, refactoring to allow binaries (two objects that orbit each other), implement caching, etc.

Otherwise now is a good time to continue on the ASP.NET Core path to expand your understanding of the ASP.NET Core framework or take a look at the Microsoft Azure for Developers path as Azure is a common choice for hosting, scaling, and expanding the functionality of ASP.NET Core applications.

Commit message:

Upgraded to .NET 6 NOTE: Configuration Instructions need routing and endpoint configuration added with tests adjusted accordingly.

README.md, after:

# Build a Starchart Web API using ASP.NET Core

The Build a Starchart Web API using ASP.NET Core Application is designed to allow users to submit and retrieve data about celestial objects. This will cover using EntityFramework to retrieve, add, update, and remove data from an in memory database and making it accessible via a web service.

# Setup the Application

## If you want to use Visual Studio
If you want to use Visual Studio (highly recommended) follow the following steps:
-   If you already have Visual Studio installed make sure you have .Net Core installed by running the "Visual Studio Installer" and making sure ".NET Core cross-platform development" is checked
-   If you need to install visual studio download it at https://www.microsoft.com/net/download/ (If you're using Windows you'll want to check "ASP.NET" and ".NET Core cross-platform development" on the workloads screen during installation.)
-   Open the .sln file in visual studio
-   To run the application simply press the Start Debug button (green arrow) or press F5
-   If you're using Visual Studio on Windows, to run tests open the Test menu, click Run, then click on Run all tests (results will show up in the Test Explorer)
-   If you're using Visual Studio on macOS, to run tests, select the StarChartTests Project, then go to the Run menu, then click on Run Unit Tests (results will show up in the Unit Tests panel)

(Note: All tests should fail at this point, this is by design. As you progress through the projects more and more tests will pass. All tests should pass upon completion of the project.)

## If you don't plan to use Visual studio
If you would rather use something other than Visual Studio
-   Install the .Net Core SDK from https://www.microsoft.com/net/download/core once that installation completes you're ready to roll!
-   To run the application go into the StarChart project folder and type `dotnet run`
-   To run the tests go into the StarChartTests project folder and type `dotnet test`

# Features you will implement

- Configuring MVC and EntityFramework
- Create a web service that provides access to data
- Actions to retrieve data from the database
- Action to Submit data to the database
- Actions to Update existing data
- Action to remove data from the database

## Tasks necessary to complete implementation:

__Note:__ this isn't the only way to accomplish this, however; this is what the project's tests are expecting. Implementing this in a different way will likely result in being marked as incomplete / incorrect.

===NOTE TODO Middleware Configuration needs to be updated to use routing / endpoints===
- [ ] Adding Middleware/Configuration to `Startup.cs`
  - [ ] In the `ConfigureServices` method call the `AddMvc` method on `services` to add support for MVC middleware.
  - [ ] In the `ConfigureServices` method call `AddDbContext<ApplicationDbContext>` on `services` with the argument `options => options.UseInMemoryDatabase("StarChart")` to point `EntityFramework` to the application's `DbContext`. (Note: You will need to add a `using` directives for `StarChart.Data` and `Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore`)
  - [ ] In the `Configure` method add a call to `UseMvc` method on `app`.
- [ ] Create `CelestialObject` Model
  - [ ] Create a new public class `CelestialObject` in the `Models` directory
  - [ ] Create a new public property of type `int` named `Id`.
  - [ ] Create a new public property of type `string` named `Name`. This property should have the `Required` attribute. (Note: you will need to add a `using` directive for `Systems.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations`)
  - [ ] Create a new public property of type `int?` named `OrbitedObjectId`.
  - [ ] Create a new public property of type `List<CelestialObject>` named `Satellites`. This property should have the `NotMapped` attribute. (Note: you will need to add `using` directives for `System.Collections.Generic` and `System.ComponentModels.DataAnnotations.Schema`)
  - [ ] Create a new public property of type `TimeSpan` named `OrbitalPeriod`.
  - [ ] In the `ApplicationDbContext` class, located in the `Data` folder, create a new public property of type `DbSet<CelestialObject>` named `CelestialObjects`. (Note: you will need to add a `using` directive for `StarChart.Models`)
- [ ] Create `CelestialObjectController` class
  - [ ] Create a new class `CelestialObjectController` in the `Controllers` folder that inherits the `ControllerBase` class. If any actions are automatically generated they should be removed. (Note: you will need to add a `using` directive for `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc`)
  - [ ] Add a `Route` attribute with a value of `""` and `ApiController` attribute to the `CelestialObjectController`.
  - [ ] Create a new private readonly field of type `ApplicationDbContext` named `_context`. (Note: you will need to add a `using` directive for `StarChart.Data`)
  - [ ] Create a constructor that accepts a parameter of type `ApplicationDbContext` and sets the `_context` field using the provided parameter.
- [ ] Create all `CelestialObjectController`'s Get actions
  - [ ] Create a new method `GetById` 
    - This method should have a return type of `IActionResult` 
    - This method should accept a parameter of type `int` named `id`. 
    - This method should have an `HttpGet` attribute with an value of `"{id:int}"` and the `Name` property set to `"GetById"`. 
    - This method should return `NotFound` there is no `CelestialObject` with an `Id` property that matches the parameter.
    - This method should also set the `Satellites` property to any `CelestialObjects` who's `OrbitedObjectId` is the current `CelestialObject`'s `Id`.
    - This method should return an `Ok` with a value of the `CelestialObject` who's `Id` property matches the `id` parameter.
  - [ ] Create the `GetByName` method
    - This method should have a return type of `IActionResult` 
    - This method should accept a parameter of type `string` named `name`. 
    - This method should have an `HttpGet` attribute with a value of `"{name}"`.
    - This method should return `NotFound` there is no `CelestialObject` with an `Name` property that matches the `name` parameter.
    - This method should also set the `Satellites` property for each `CelestialObject` who's `OrbitedObjectId` is the current `CelestialObject`'s `Id`.
    - This method should return an `Ok` with a value of the list of `CelestialObject` who's `Name` property matches the `name` parameter.
  - [ ] Create the `GetAll` method
    - This method should have a return type of `IActionResult`.
    - This method should also set the `Satellites` property for each of the `CelestialObject`s returned.
    - This method should have an `HttpGet` attribute. 
    - This method should return `Ok` with a value of all `CelestialObjects`s.
- [ ] Create `CelestialObjectControllers`'s Post, Put, Patch, and Delete actions
  - [ ] Create the `Create` method
    - This method should have a return type of `IActionResult` .
    - This method should accept a parameter of type `[FromBody]CelestialObject`. (Note: You will need to add a `using` directive for `StarChart.Models`) 
    - This method should have an `HttpPost` attribute. 
    - This method should add the provided `CelestialObject` to the `CelestialObjects` `DbSet` then `SaveChanges`.
    - This method should return a `CreatedAtRoute` with the arguments 
      - `"GetById"`
      - A new `object` with an `id` of the `CelestialObject`'s `Id` (note: use the `new { }` format)
      - The newly created `CelestialObject`.
  - [ ] Create the `Update` method
    - This method should have a return type of `IActionResult` .
    - This method should accept a parameter of type `int` named `id` and a parameter of type `CelestialObject`. 
    - This method should have the `HttpPut` attribute with a value of `"{id}"`.
    - This method should locate the `CelestialObject` with an `Id` that matches the provided `int` parameter. 
      - If no match is found return `NotFound`.
      - If a match is found set it's `Name`, `OrbitalPeriod`, and `OrbitedObjectId` properties based on the provided `CelestialObject` parameter. Call `Update` on the `CelestialObjects` `DbSet` with an argument of the updated `CelestialObject`, and then call `SaveChanges`.
    - This method should return `NoContent`.
  - [ ] Create the `RenameObject` method
    - This method should have a return type of `IActionResult`.
    - This method should accept a parameter of type `int` named `id` and a parameter of type `string` named `name`. 
    - This method should have the `HttpPatch` attribute with an argument of `"{id}/{name}"`. 
    - This method should locate the `CelestialObject` with an `Id` that matches the provided `int` parameter. 
      - If no match is found return `NotFound`.
      - If a match is found set it's `Name` property to the provided `name` parameter. Then call `Update` on the `CelestialObjects` `DbSet` with an argument of the updated `CelestialObject`, and then call `SaveChanges`.
    - This method should return `NoContent`.
  - [ ] Create the `Delete` method
    - This method should have a return type of `IActionResult` 
    - This method should accept a parameter of type `int` named `id`. 
    - This method should have the `HttpDelete` attribute with an argument of `"{id}"`.
    - This method should get a `List` of all `CelestialObject`s who either have an `Id` or `OrbitedObjectId`that matches the provided parameter. 
      - If there are no matches it should return `NotFound`.
      - If there are matching `CelestialObject`s call `RemoveRange` on the `CelestialObjects` `DbSet` with an argument of the list of matching `CelestialObject`s. Then call `SaveChanges`.
    - This method should return `NoContent`.
    
## What Now?

You've completed the tasks of this project, if you want to continue working on this project some next steps to consider would be adding authentication to help secure the Web API, refactoring to allow binaries (two objects that orbit each other), implement caching, etc.

Otherwise now is a good time to continue on the ASP.NET Core path to expand your understanding of the ASP.NET Core framework or take a look at the Microsoft Azure for Developers path as Azure is a common choice for hosting, scaling, and expanding the functionality of ASP.NET Core applications.
